what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose finally
back in England I'm in London I'm in my
room getting ready to start school in a
couple of days things are gonna ramp up
pretty fast so I wonder record a video
today I'm gonna do a Q&A I know I've
been saying I'm gonna do a Q&A for a
couple of weeks now so hopefully you
guys have gone in all the questions you
want and we're gonna answer them today
in this video before I start this video
maybe some of you are wondering boy
karma medic where you been
I've been on vacation
[Music]
that was a pretty fun two weeks
God spend a lot of time in Greece going
on holiday sort of decompress and relax
from all the work I was doing in Toronto
let's get right into the Q&A I've asked
you guys four questions for the Q&A over
on my youtube videos and also my
Instagram page if you don't follow my
Instagram page follow it right here I
post pictures and videos by my life now
I'm gonna be starting my second year at
kacl we're gonna be posting a lot more
things about the hospital the GP
placements and also the school so I mean
we found my trusty laptop all right
let's see nafisa nuf you saw are you in
your first second third fourth or fifth
year so I just finished my first year at
kacl I'm going into my second year this
will be my second degree em Expo asks
what did you study for underground the
first time was the science or medicine
related love the bids thank you so much
yes it was science medicine related I
did two majors and one minor my majors
were genes genetics and biotechnology
then I did molecular genetics and
microbiology and then I did a minor in
immunology as well honestly if you're
doing your undergrad in science I would
suggest you do it in whatever field you
find most interesting you don't have to
do biomedical sciences you don't have to
do biochemistry choose something that
you really really like and go for it
it's gonna be a lot more fun than
studying something generic for a couple
of years oh gee Marie why the name karma
medic good question I'm surprised this
hasn't come up for a long time so my
full name is actually Nasir karma and so
karma is kind of a play on words on
Karma good karma bad karma so I thought
I'd come up with karma medic and I've
drawn it up there as you can see Padilla
Johny
I hope I don't butcher any of your names
I'm sorry if I do Hadiya Jami asks what
languages can you speak
I can speak fluent English and Arabic I
also studied Spanish in high school and
for a year at university for about three
or four years but I would say on
conversational at best and then I lived
in Greece for most of my life so I can
understand Greek very very well but I
don't speak it as well as I would like
to Tesco and Sainsbury's deal multiple
people asked this question but I found
your name the funniest so I'm gonna
include you in this video where are you
from so this is a bit of a long story
I'll try and do the TLDR version
basically in my original heritage is
Palestinian Jordanian I was born in
banku
Canada and then very shortly after I
moved to Athens Greece where I lived for
about 18 years why I feel most is home
for me is Athens Greece so it's a bit of
a mixed bag I'm not entirely sure it's
answer your question are any other of
you guys like that where you're like
really really international from a lot
of different places if you are let me
know MK asks why is there an orange dog
on your table I have no idea what you're
talking about
so have a message here on Instagram and
this person asks why actually call you
interested in medicine where are you
interested in something else before
starting medicine so I guess I'll tackle
the second part first I was not
interested in anything else ever since I
was a kid I sort of just knew that I
wanted to do medicine of course I didn't
really know what that meant when I was
younger but I was always interested in
the field I was interested in what
doctors were doing and I wanted to learn
more the way that I actually got
interested in medicine was I just really
enjoyed science at school but that
doesn't necessarily mean that you like
medicine right I tried to find as many
opportunities that I could that would
show me what medicine really was so I
started volunteering in hospital
laboratories I shadowed an orthopedic
surgeon no I shadowed a cardiothoracic
surgeon I was the first doctor that I
shadowed so I spent some time in the
hospital and I sort of got to see what
the doctors actually do like what is it
like inside of a hospital because before
that all I knew about doctor patient
experience was when I went to see a
doctor and that's a really really
minimal narrow aspect of what doctors
really do when I was going through these
experiences I was trying to understand
what is medicine you know there's the
research aspect to it there's the
patient aspect to it there's a doctor
aspect to it there's there's so much
more than just the doctor/patient
consultation and through those
experiences in the hospital's shadowing
doctors I sort of got to understand what
medicine is and I realized okay this is
actually in line with what I want to do
and so I pursued it further this one was
asked by Kieran bahara Barbara how come
you didn't apply for graduate entry
medicine so I get this question a lot
the reason I didn't apply to graduate
entry medicine was that I'm an
international student and I just thought
that the competitiveness would be too
high for me
so as a non-domestic and on EU student I
knew that my chances for getting
accepted were quite low and I didn't
want to further increase that by
applying to graduate engine medicine if
you look at the numbers for the standard
entry medicine and the graduate entry
medicine the Graduate entry is always
more competitive so I thought to myself
I'm willing to take that risk I'm going
to do an extra year
on my totally real length but I just
want to start medicine I want to get
started now get focused on medicine so
this is a question I go over on the
student room quite some time ago back
when I was on the senior room forums
every single day trying to help answer
questions and whatnot so someone asks
how do you track your time do you take
breaks do you work in chunks the or do
you just work for four hours straight
how I track my time is just my watch or
my phone or whatever I don't really use
any app that like tells you to work for
this amount of time then take a break
for this amount of time how I work is in
four-hour chunks which I know sounds
like a huge amount for some people but I
don't find it difficult to stay focused
I don't get distracted easily so I like
to work in four-hour chunks and then
take a two hour break and hoe this
sounds kind of crazy for a lot of people
for example my sister she works in 15
minutes and then five minutes fifteen
then five which i think is like some
tomato timer thing you guys can correct
me if I'm wrong but it really depends on
you see what works for you you want to
strike a balance between the amount of
time you can stay focused and actually
do useful work and you also need to
complete enough work in the day so if
you can only focus for 15 minutes but
you only study for an hour day obviously
you're not doing enough right so you
want to strike that balance someone else
from the senior room hey thanks for your
apply how do you avoid procrastinating
do you have any specific revision method
or a way of studying I avoid
procrastinating by I don't know I'm just
I'm just really motivated I'm really I
have a passion for what I'm studying I
really enjoy it and I feel like I always
need to be working if I'm not working on
my schoolwork I'm doing something
productive even if it's just like
drawing like I have here on the wall or
you know sending an email or just
writing anything that is I'm sure I want
to be working all the time I have like
this need to sit down and work don't get
me wrong I like to sit down and chill
and whatever but I have very specific
times for chilling for example the
morning with my coffee when I'm watching
videos it's great I like to segregate
very strongly my work time from my play
time stuff when it's play time I have
lots and lots of fun I don't do any work
I don't think about work and then when
it's work time I'm very hyper focused on
finishing what I have to do Francesco
Marinelli one of the first people who
started supporting me shout out to you
if you're watching this video how many
lectures do you have per day on average
and how many placements so placements
are starting now in second year we have
one day a week a GP practice
and one day week in hospital and then
lectures per day in first year it was
pretty intense sometimes we would have
nine to five with just a break for lunch
but it's not all lectures it's like
lectures tutorials workshops are not to
me the section so it kind of breaks up
the day in that sense but sometimes you
would get periods where you just have
four hours in the same lecture room
how many lectures do you have on day per
average it really varies I'd say
anywhere from two to like five or six
and yeah it's quite a lot first year was
pretty intense
why did you choose to study in the UK
there were a lot of factors that pushed
me to apply to the UK one was that I
wasn't sure if I was going to get in to
Canadian medical schools the application
process is significantly harder there
the competitiveness is significantly
higher there so I knew that it was a
lower chance of me actually getting
accepted there so I planted the UK to
have a backup let's say on top of that
all of my high school friends live in UK
my sister lives in the UK my parents are
closer to me if I'm in the UK so there
were a lot of reasons for why I came to
study in the UK but ultimately I didn't
get accepted in Canada so I didn't
really have a choice I could have taken
a gap year but I just really wanted to
start medicine to which you knees did
you apply to and how many offers that
you get so I applied to Bristol
Southampton kings and Queen Mary's Queen
Mary's rejected me without an interview
the other three I got interviews for I
rejected Southampton's interview because
I already was accepted to I believe
Bristol at the time and I went to both
Bristol and Kings for my interviews and
I got offers from both but I eventually
chose to come to King's what do you
enjoy doing during your free time at uni
I have any free time and you needs
usually for like 45 minutes maybe an
hour if I'm not eating during that time
for lunch or because I'm hungry or
whatever I'll usually just be chatting
to friends we'll just sit down somewhere
and have some conversation until our
next class or I'll go to the library and
try and finish up some work from earlier
in that day so that I have less to do at
the end of the school day and I can go
home earlier is a good question so as an
M asks me what's your favorite part of
London I definitely say that the coolest
part of London is just how big it is and
how much there is to do there's so many
high streets where you can go to your
shopping there's so many cafes and
restaurants and just areas to explore
every time I think I've like checked out
all of Leicester Square or all of Hyde
Park or whatever there's always more and
more that I haven't seen before
so I think it's just that there
so much to do you'll never run out of
entertainment here he also asks what's
the best thing about medicine in your
opinion as on if you're referring to the
KCl course like well my opinion of the
medicine courses I would definitely say
the anatomy is the best thing having
actual dissection has been so much fun
in my first year I've really really
enjoyed being the actual person to cut
into the cadavers and explore all the
internal organs and different structures
so being able to actually do that
yourself it's a big deal for me now that
I'm starting second year I'm gonna be
going to GP placements and hospital
placements so I'm super super excited
about that and of course I'll let you
guys know how that goes as time goes on
and the last question for this Q&A comes
from me if you guys have any specific
video suggestions that you want me to
make or any topics that you're unsure of
that you want me maybe to elaborate on
or give my own experience about do let
me know in a comment down below and I'll
try and make a video on it in the future
if you like this Q&A feel free to let me
know I'd be happy to do this again if
you guys have any more questions in the
future hope that gave you guys a little
bit more insight into Who I am why I
enjoy and I helped answer some of your
questions that you had alright guys
thanks so much for watching leave a like
on this video subscribe to the channel
if you enjoyed it and you want to see
more videos from me signing out I'll see
you guys in the next video peace